hello hey man hi
hi nice to meet you nice to meet you too
what do you go by uh ollie is fine
ollie okay how can i help you today
ollie
uh i guess i had a question about
relationships
and mostly just about um a lot of times
like
i'm not happy in a lot of relationships
but i don't know
like how to leave or how to like
prioritize myself
more you know sure and
yeah i just don't know why i do that
like i know
like the steps to take like i'm like
okay i'll just tell them hey
i'm not really happy i should probably
focus on myself blah blah blah but i
just
can't do it okay or i use
like even when the relationship's like
coming to an end
i just like start panicking and i try to
like fix it
i'm like oh no let's try to work it out
even though i really don't
want to be in it and um yeah
okay can you help yeah so that's that's
uh i'm really glad you
um you know came in today and are
sharing this question
or concern because i think it's a really
important thing that a lot of people
struggle with
so i think the way to approach
situations like this like
is to first understand what is going on
inside you
so when a relationship comes is starting
to come to an
end let's actually start a little bit
before that so when you say you're
unhappy in a relationship
what does that mean um it's like
either i'm bored or i just don't really
like the person that i'm with is like
hurtful
in a certain way or like are doing
something that's just like upsetting me
or it's just um can you give me an
example of what's hurtful in a
relationship
um well i guess the like the last
person that i was with um i mean they
were nice
and all and like it was like an okay
relationship overall but um i think a
lot of times
she would make comments about me being
like awkward or like shy
and stuff and i it just
made me like feel worse about myself and
i never really like spoke up about it
like whenever she'd say
oh like you know i really don't like it
when you don't like try to talk to
people more
okay you walk really awkwardly and
i don't know like it kind of just like
it makes me act more awkward around her
and all that stuff sure and um
yeah i just you know like but like you
know at the time i was like oh yeah it's
it's my fault i'm the dumbass who's
awkward you know it's not
at all you yeah okay yeah
someone
i was just gonna say like whenever you
had like conversations about like
breaking things off it would
it would kind of just go into um like me
saying oh no
i'll try to work on myself you know
these are things they'll
fix eventually in the future blah blah
blah
and yeah so in those
okay so there are a couple of things
that we have to kind of like unpack here
okay ollie yeah so let's start with like
what's in your mind when you're in this
situation
so when the way you asked the question
you were like
when relationships are unhealthy for me
i don't
it was almost like you were saying i
don't have the courage
to break up with them does that make
sense
yeah that kind of makes sense yeah but i
i think that that's sort of uh that
could be a little bit misleading because
if in the moment you actually
believe what they say then it's not
about courage because
you actually genuinely think that you're
at fault
yeah right there are two issues here one
is that you may believe that you're at
fault
and so like if you're the problem like
how does breaking up
help anything you need to fix yourself
and then the relationship will be
healthy
does that make sense uh yeah it makes
sense
and then the other option is that you're
not at fault but you have
trouble like being confrontational
or stating your views for some
reason yeah so which
and it can be a blend of both but which
one are we talking about here
like which one you fall into i think
it's a mix of both i would say the
latter
is more like just not being able to like
confident be confrontational and stuff
okay so how would you how do you feel
like so it sounds like it at times when
she said
oh you know you're awkward or you walk
funny you are like yeah i'm the dumbass
that dot dot dot
but then when you do know that you kind
of want to break up with them
what gets in the way of you telling them
um i guess kind of just like like when i
think about it i'm just like oh well
like
you know if i go through with this it's
just
uh sorry i just need to like think about
this for a second um i think it's just
take a second to think about it
i mean it's like a mix of like emotions
it's not just like
oh like i don't like one's just
i don't i feel like me saying oh i just
don't want to like make this work
anymore sometimes feels like oh it's
just
me being like weak you know like
like with that person like the issue was
just like me being like a little
like anxious and stuff or just awkward
if you like me saying like oh
like i don't want to do this anymore i
felt like oh like
you know i have these problems and
they're never going to go away
so why would i try to like
fix them or something like that or just
like oh like
you know once i'm done like no one else
would like ever like want to be with me
blah blah blah
like something dramatic like that so
yeah so i i understood that last part i
was a little bit confused about
some you said something about this is
never going to get better
so what helped me understand that oh
it's just like you know like
you know like me like break like ending
the things
breaking up with them or whatever would
mean that like oh i couldn't fix my
problem
you know like i wasn't able to like find
my solutions i just gave up
yeah are you concerned about
how they would feel if you broke up with
them
yeah and how do you feel
what are your concerns about their
feelings i mean i just
don't want to like hurt your feelings or
just make them feel bad
you know do you feel responsible for
their feelings
uh a bit yeah like not like you know
like
well if i like do something that like
hurts them i like feel really bad
and i'm just like oh i sh why did i do
that you know
yeah so ali there's something really
really dangerous you're doing here
right so let me just kind of try to lay
this out
so one is there's a fatalistic view
about yourself
like if i break up with them i have to
fix this problem
i can't fix this problem now so i won't
be able to fix it later
i might as well stay in the relationship
and so in a weird way what you're doing
is you're sort of saying like i don't
have
the control or strength because you call
yourself weak
to fix myself and so so
there's it's kind of interesting because
it's sort of like you don't have the
power to control
your own life and then your mind does
something really really
dangerous which is a lethal combination
with that one it's like a combo
which is that you do have the power to
control their lives
because if you don't break up with them
at least they'll be happy
or if you do break up with them they'll
be sad and that's something you can fix
so i think the reason that you have
trouble in these sorts of situations is
because there's like a one-two punch of
i can't fix my i can't make myself happy
but i can make them happy and so if you
really think about it it's like a
logical no-brainer that like why would
you
because you're if you break up with them
it's not like you're going to be able to
fix the problem anyway
so why would you hurt them if you're
just going to be screwed on your own and
you're going to screw them over too
why not just stay in the relationship
and at least make them happy because
it's not like you're salvageable
does that resonate at all or not so much
um
yeah i mean that that's kind of on the
spot really you know
so so that's that's tricky right because
it's like
like this is where i want you to
understand ali you're not stupid and
you're not
weak you're actually like a caring
intelligent
person and you're just making that
judgment call
based on the data that you've got which
is like
i can make them happy and stay in the
relationship
and sacrifice my own happiness but even
if i break up with them it's not like
i'm gonna be happy anyway so there's
like it's like a no-brainer of a choice
does that make sense
yeah that makes sense like it's not i
don't know i'm kind of just like the way
i work it in my head
exactly it's the way you work it in your
head is like it's just a terrible idea
on all fronts to break up because
breaking up is gonna hurt them and it's
not gonna help you so why do it
you might as well work on yourself fix
yourself in the relationship
and then everything will change so if
you want to tackle that
that one-two punch of i can make their
life better and i can't make mine better
right so those that's the tricky thing
if you want to tackle that you have to
tackle those assumptions so
why do you believe that you can't
you know work on yourself more
why do you believe like where does the
belief that you're a weak person
come from um
i i guess like a mix of things um i
don't i mean i don't think i'm like
entirely a weak person but um
i i mean a lot of times when i try to
like work on myself
like i sell start building routines like
exercising
and all that stuff like things go well
for a while and then
like like the littlest thing happens and
it kind of just sets off like a
domino effect where everything just kind
of fumbles down so it's just
i just feel like oh like if i'm reacting
so negatively to like the smallest thing
yeah it must be weak
ali that's like when the power there's a
part when you start to put your life
together
you have a small setback and then
there's a part of your mind that says
i told you so i told you you couldn't do
it what were you
what were you thinking early that you
could put your life together
how stupid can you be i told you so you
better not try and so that's the thing
that you really really have to tackle
right so like where does
that voice come from because i don't
think you're a failure
at all it's just you have a some scar
which is
s-a-m-s-k-a-r-a you have this like
this programming in your mind that tells
you it's like the voice that was
implanted in your mind
that tells you that you're incapable of
change
and so like you know you really have to
dig into where
that voice comes from do you know
um i i think i do
kinda ish i mean i feel like there's a
lot of incidents
like that i've like because like i think
like i've never been like the um
smart kid ever you know in school at
least
and um i remember in middle school um i
took like it we
took like why i like well i grew up in
um iran
for like background and stuff and we had
like
standardized tests that would kind of
evaluate your like math and like
language scores and all that stuff
and it was like ranked and i actually
scored like
really high on that and um i felt
pretty good about myself that day
because i was like oh maybe i'm not
stupid you know and i felt like okay
maybe i can start
playing better in school i can start
focusing on myself and like
all that stuff and then the same day um
we had like you know like binders in our
locker rooms and stuff
and like the dean would just check them
on daily to make sure we're like
organized and stuff
and he checked mine i'm not a very
organized person
so i got very upset at that and he came
to class and he threw a binder at me
and started yelling at me saying i'm
like a failure or whatever
and i was like oh okay i guess i guess
he has a point
you know well so i think that's a that's
a very
insightful story to share ali because
that's it right
it's not just that he threw the binder
at you it's that he threw the binder on
at you on the same day that you did well
in the class in the standardized test so
it's like when you succeed
you know like elise when you're about to
succeed
ali steps in and snatches defeat from
the jaws of victory
like you're about to win and then like
something shows up and then like teaches
you
puts you in your place how dare you
think you're smart ali
yeah and and so just notice that pattern
because like it's really challenging
because as long as that pattern is there
you know it's it's going to be really
hard because any time you try to take a
step forward
the pattern is triggered by your actual
success
like does that make sense no that makes
perfect sense you don't say i told you
so
until you start succeeding and that's
what's like it's like
this is op it's like it's completely
broken and needs to be patched
because any step forward you take it
triggers the pattern so that it's almost
like
i know this is going to sound kind of
weird but when i think about patterns
like this i actually think
about hiv and the problem with hiv
is that it attacks the very part of your
immune system that fights viruses and so
in that way like you have this pattern
in your mind
that attacks the part of your mind that
helps you
get out of like negative emotional and
mental spaces
yeah and so this is a sort of situation
where i think it's really important to
recognize that
you're not actually failing it's just
any time something anytime you start to
succeed and you're
actually succeeding this pattern is
going to wake up and
tell you that you're failing
and be aware of that and recognize that
like the stronger that pattern is
oddly enough the better you're doing
because it doesn't turn on unless you're
doing well
what do you think about that um
yeah i mean that makes sense like it's
kind of i mean it's also like
um i don't know if this is like related
or not but it's also when i
like when i do that right like i kind of
like it also like activates
like in a way where it's like oh you
know you're hey you know you're just
falling behind again like what's the
point of trying
because like you know you're already so
behind and it's stupid
but you know it's so no it no so so it's
not stupid
that's the thing that you've got to
understand is you have to understand
that these these thoughts in your mind
are coming from experience and and so as
long as you treat them as stupid
you're not going to be able to overcome
them and so
actually what you want to do is like
recognize that
in some weird way your mind is twisting
to make that not stupid
and then you have to learn how to
untwist which is sort of like
there's sort of this i told you so
you're not worth a whole lot kind of
like like attitude and i think as long
as that attitude is there you're going
to continue getting into these
situations in your relationships
and to really unpack that attitude
you've got two or three options one is
to recognize the attitude as it arises
and try to be really objective in those
moments about okay
my mind is telling me i told you so
yeah my mind is telling me that i'm not
gonna do anything
but if i really stop and think about it
i've been exercising for a week
and like this is one day that i've
messed up so recognize it
and sort of just see you don't have to
tell it it's stupid you just have to
like
try to see the other side of the coin
the second thing that you could really
do i mean this this sounds like prime
for
you know depending on what you've been
through i would strongly get
you know considered getting evaluated by
a mental health professional
um because because maybe there could be
elements of like trauma or depression or
or things like that that that may be
like clinical in nature that you could
benefit from
and if you want to work on the some scar
itself you don't have to see a therapist
for that if you don't have a clinical
sort of issue and then like coaching is
sort of designed to help people work
through
those kinds of issues and help you
understand your patterns
that's really what coaching is about um
but i definitely think that this is not
a journey that
um you need to walk alone although i
think if you
work at it like i think you'll you can
figure it out on your own through
meditation through reflection things
like that because you sound to me to be
actually a pretty capable guy and very
insightful
which i think is really what you need
um yeah i mean that sounds right i mean
i've been trying therapy for a while
it's just um
i don't have i've yet to like meet
someone that's like
able i'm able to like talk to in like a
way where like
i feel like if there's an understanding
or whatever
yep but yeah yeah and if there isn't an
understanding whose fault is that
it's their fault good
okay so so i i'm gonna toss one last
thing to you okay
yeah it's their fault but it's also your
responsibility
yeah that makes sense okay
yeah all right man thanks for calling in
hopefully that was helpful
no that was really helpful yeah thank
you so much for all the
kind words and stuff thank you for
calling in i i really
i think your question and concern is
something that a lot of people can
relate to
yeah no i really enjoyed it yeah glad i
hope someone else
could relate to that too yeah thank you
you're welcome
yeah adios